Lab one : Basic Shell Commands and Bash Usage in RHEL 9

Section 1: Logging in and Accessing the System

Login Task (GUI): 

Open the terminal in the GUI of your RHEL 9 system.
Question: What command do you use to open a terminal in RHEL via the GUI? 
Answer: 


Login Task (SSH):

From another system, SSH into the RHEL machine.
Question: What command did you use to SSH into the system, and what was the IP address of your RHEL machine? 
ssh username@ip_address

Section 2: Understanding Bash Shell

Check Default Shell:

Run the command to check which shell you are currently using.
Question: What is the command to check the current shell? What output did you get?
Bash Commands:
Run the command echo $SHELL to ensure you're using the bash shell.
Question: Is /bin/bash shown in your output? If not, which shell are you using? 
Section 3: Running Simple Commands

Working Directory:

Use a command to check your current working directory.
Question: What command did you use, and what directory are you in right now? 

List Files:
Run a command to list all files in the /home directory.
Question: Which files and folders are present in 

Display Date:

Run a command to show the current date and time.
Question: What is the output of the date command?

Section 4: Learning Command Syntax

Command with Options:

Use the ls command with options to display detailed information about the files in /etc.
Question: What is the command you used to list files in long format? How many files or directories are listed in /etc?

Section 6: Using Terminal Shortcuts

Interrupt Process:

Run the sleep 100 command, then use a keyboard shortcut to stop the process.
Question: Which shortcut did you use to interrupt the sleep command?

Clear Terminal:

Use the shortcut to clear the terminal screen.
Question: What is the shortcut to clear the terminal?

Command Autocompletion:
Type hos in the terminal and press Tab to auto-complete it to hostname.
Question: Did the Tab key auto-complete the command for you?

Bonus Tasks

Command History:
Use the keyboard shortcut to browse through the previous commands you’ve entered.
Question: What shortcut allows you to view and re-run previous commands?

Log Out:

Use a terminal shortcut to log out of your current session.
Question: Which shortcut did you use to log out of the session?

